How did viewing a diff between two versions of a file help you see the bug that was introduced?

there was less information to go through to check the differences.
i could tell what was in the old version that worked, and use that as a correct base.


How could having easy access to the entire history of a file make you a more efficient programmer in the long term?

i could see what i put in and removed - understand what worked and what didn't in 
specific situations and what i might have missed in an earlier version, that was put
in a later version.


What do you think are the pros and cons of manually choosing when to create a commit, like you do in Git, vs having versions automatically saved, like Google Docs does?

manually choosing commit - 
pro - 
	1. can do in logical sections/breaks
con - 
	1. can forget and do commit too large, or forget and lose the info altogether
	2. can create too small/too large commits, but still better than auto save



Why do you think some version control systems, like Git, allow saving multiple files in one commit, while others, like Google Docs, treat each file separately?

saving multiple files in each commit helps to see what changes are interconnected across the system.
single file commit is good for non-connected files seperately

Git allows saving multiple files because coding can include large interconnected systems, while Google Docs files are usually less interconnected.



How can you use the commands git log and git diff to view the history of files?


you can see all the changes done to the system.
you can also look for a specific change or a last version which you liked and see what changes were made between it and whichever previous version you want to check against.




How might using version control make you more confident to make changes that could break something?

i know i could go to different stages of the product pretty easily to try to recreate the bug, and can find which version created it.



Now that you have your workspace set up, what do you want to try using Git for?
udacity's sunshine project in the android course, and maybe try out some open source projects.






































